Create "manage-bundle-size" rule (#6010)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/manage-bundle-size/rule.md

---
type: rule
archivedreason: 
title: Do you know the best ways to manage your bundle size?
guid: 0248bded-7da4-4dfe-8151-d4ac1b9559a8
uri: manage-bundle-size
created: 2023-07-14T02:13:28Z
authors:
- title: Harry Ross
  url: https://www.ssw.com.au/people/harry-ross
related:
- the-best-package-manager-for-react
- monitor-packages-for-vulnerability
- packages-up-to-date
---

> Shipping a large JavaScript bundle can be catastrophic for your web app - resulting in longer load times and a poor user experience using a web app. It is very easy for this to be the case when using a web framework such as React or Angular, as adding packages to an already large amount of framework code can result in a bloated JavaScript bundle. 

Reviewer: I think adding a little more context to the beginning could be helpful. Something like, 🤖

> Web performance plays a crucial role in the success of any online venture. High-performing sites engage and retain users better than poorly performing ones. One of the key factors affecting web performance is the size of your JavaScript bundle. The larger the bundle, the longer it takes for your web app to load, potentially causing users to lose interest and abandon your app.
Large JavaScript bundles can be particularly problematic for users with slow internet connections or limited data plans. Each additional kilobyte added to your bundle can make your app slower to load and more costly for these users.
When using modern web frameworks like React or Angular, it's easy to end up with a large bundle size, especially as you add more packages and complexity to your app. This can result in a bloated JavaScript bundle that degrades your app's performance and negatively impacts user experience.
To mitigate this issue, it's important to continually monitor and minimize your JavaScript bundle size. This is where various tools and practices come in handy, helping you keep your bundle size under control while maintaining the functionality your app requires.

<!--endintro-->

> Tools like [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) or [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) can help with reducing the amount of JavaScript shipped to the end-user. However, even if we have used these tools it may still be necessary to minimise the number of NPM packages in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite the efforts made by tools like [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) or [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) to optimize your JavaScript bundle, these may not be sufficient if your project has an excessive number of NPM packages. Each package introduces additional code to your bundle, and unnecessary or redundant packages can quickly inflate its size. Identifying and eliminating such packages can help keep your bundle lean and efficient. Here are some tools that can help with this process:
```

## depcheck

Depcheck is a great CLI tool that scans your project to automatically detect unused dependencies in a project, giving you a clear and concise list of unused packages in a repository. 

```shell
npx depcheck
```

> ![Figure: A list of the unused dependencies in a project](depcheck.png)

Reviewer 2: We also need to double check if this tools also scans for CLI tooling.
Tailwindcss in the picture is listed as unused but it is used as part of the post-css flow (i.e. it's the process where Webpack/Vite/your bundler process your source code to build the Tailwind final CSS in this scenario).

Author: Added disclaimers for both of these cases

## Bundlephobia

Bundlephobia is a great tool for quickly seeing the bundle size of NPM packages. You can find the bundle size of any NPM package by going to the URL: bundlephobia.com/package/{{ PACKAGE_NAME_HERE }}. 

You can also upload a package.json file to display a list of packages in your project, allowing you to easily see which NPM packages have the largest size in the project. You can find it at [bundlephobia.com/scan](https://bundlephobia.com/scan).

> ![Figure: The list of packages from the package.json file, sorted by size](bundlephobia_list.png)

Reviewer 2: Careful when scanning your package.json - not all of them is going to be shipped in the project (e.g. Typescript in the picture is not shipped - it's a build dependency) :)

## Import Cost VSCode Extension

> The Import Cost extension for VSCode, developed by Wix shows the size of each NPM package you import, which can provide useful visual feedback on how large the packages you importing actually are. You can find the extension [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wix.vscode-import-cost). 

Reviewer 3: Hey @Harry-Ross 

1. Can you follow https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/descriptive-links/ for the link in this sentence?
